planit
======

Dependencies:

To run planit, you must install python 2.6, Django version 1.3 or higher, and django-registration-0.8.
(we asssume that the teaching team has python installed and can install Django easily).

To install django-registration, cd to to the project root, untar the django-registration archive, cd into the django-registration directory, and run:

% sudo python setup.py install



Running:

To run planit, cd into 'planit' and run:

% python manage.py runserver

This will run the server locally on port 8000.

Opening a web browser to http://localhost:8000 should redirect to the login page. You can log in with the credentials:

user: dv
pw: dv

planit has a complete account registration system, which sends confirmation emails before activating user accounts. If you do not have access to an smtp server, you can run a fake smtp server by running:

% python -m smtpd -n -c DebuggingServer localhost:9999

in a new terminal window. Then, after creating in account, the "email" with the necessary activation link will be printed to stdout.

Once you log in, you can create a new plan by clicking the "Select a Plan" dropdown and clicking "Create New Four-Year Plan"



Admin:

You can access the administrative side of planit by going to http://localhost:8000/admin (assuming you are running the server at localhost:8000)

This is intended to be used by school administrators to modify information in the database. Clicking on any link within the "Planner" box lets the user view database objects of that type. Much of the data in the database is generated by the filldb.py script, but it is useful to note how to modify objects such as Prerequisites and Requirements using the admin tool.

To handle course Prerequisites, we use objects called PrereqGroups. A PrereqGroup is a disjunction, meaning that in order for the group to be satisfied, only one of the specified courses in the group must be taken. A course can have a set of PrereqGroups that must all be satisfied. To create a new PrereqGroup, click on the +Add button next to "Prereq_groups." Select the course for which a PrereqGroup is being created in teh "For course" dropdown and multi-select the course names that should be part of the disjunction. For example, to set CS107's prerequisites as "CS106B or CS106X," you would create a PrereqGroup with the "For course" set to CS107 and the satisfiers set as CS106B and CS106X. To set CS142's prerequisites as "CS107 AND CS108", you would create two PrereqGroups, each with CS142 as the "For course," one of which would have CS107 as the only selected satisfier and one with CS108 as the only selected satisfier.

Note: the "mandatory" field for PrereqGroup is currently ignored.


To deal with Requirements (general and major), we use RequirementGroup, Requirement, and TagMapping objects.

Course objects in the database are 'tagged' with names of Requirements that they fulfill. Requirement objects correspond to these tags. A Requirement object also contains an integer representing how many courses with that tag must be taken in order to fulfill the Requirement. RequirementGroups have a set of Requirements and an integer represnting how many of its Requirements must be satisfied in order to satisfy the entire group. RequirementGroups can also be associated with a particular major and, if so, can also be designated as a "track" for that major (i.e. the Systems track within the CS major). Finally, TagMappings allow the administrator to associate a Requirement tag with a course.

To create a new Requirement, click the +Add button next to "Requirements" and fill out the necessary info. Then, to add a course that fulfills that Requirement, create a new TagMapping object with the Tag set to the name of the Requirement and the Course set to the Course that you would like to fulfill that Requirement. (Multiple TagMappings with the same Tag can be created).

Requirements also have "bypassable" and "exclusive" boolean fields, which respectively determine whether or not users can use exempt courses to fulfill the requirement or whether courses fulfilling this Requirement can't be double-counted for other exclusive requirements.

